* Start this section with self-exlcusion, number of other responsible gambling tools and cooling-off: If the casino doesn’t offer self-exclusion, warn the reader about this and follow up by saying that this is the most basic and usually mandatory tool for every online casino. If a casino doesn’t have this, it means they are either not operating legally when it comes to responsible gaming, or they don’t care about players enough to offer this tool. If the casino offers self exclusion, say how many other resposnsible gambling tools, except self-exlusion, the casino offers and state them as a bullet point list.  Follow up by commenting on this number based on this criteria: if the casino offers 3 or 4 of these tools, they are above average and offer the safest experience possible in terms of responsible gambling. If that casino offers 1 or two such tools, they are average, meaning it’s ok, but could be better for the highest safety and ease of mind. If the casino offers no other tools, they need to step up the game; responsible gambling tools don’t bring money to the casino, but create a safer environment for players, which shows care and responsibility on the casino’s side.
* If the casino also offers a cooling-off option, commend the casino on it, as this isn’t the most common responsible gambling tool and often isn’t found in casinos. This either shows that the casino is hosted on a platform where this tool is also offered, or the casino went the extra mile to offer an even safer environment for its players. If the casino doesn’t offer the cooling-off option, say that this is usually the case in online casinos and if the reader prefers to have this option available, recommend another casino that does offer cooling-off as an alternative option, taken from the Top Casinos with cooling-off option.
* Next: Do you need to contact support to activate responsible gambling tools or not? :State whether responsible gambling tools are available without having to contact support or not. Having these tools available at a click of a button means a much easier control of gambling for a player, and is usually the preferred way. While having to contact support for this means an unnecessary additional step, it’s still better than having no tools to use at all.